Good evening all and welcome to matchday number 194 here at ecoworld arena. I am Harsha Bhogle and I will be your on-field host for this evening. Today we have the TM(Toastmasters Club) vs the FPS(Fear of Public Speaking). The conditions are pleasant here in bengaluru and earlier today I saw the SAA analysing the conditions. Just a few moments back we had the toss where club captain Prithwijit decided to bat first. Seems like a good decision, the stage seems like a good surface to speak on. The stakes are high and the speakers seems ready for the challenge up ahead. While the speakers warm up lets head to my co-host who is at the studio - ™ Suraj.

Thanks Harsha and welcome again to the finals of the 2023 edition of the IPL. We have the spectators here in the stadium and all the folks watching the match from their homes. Now question for the audience, who all know what IPL is? Well ofcourse, IPL is the biggest, longest festival in India, every year from March to May. IPL and I go back a long way. It started back in 2008 which perfectly coincided with the time I started developing an interest in sports and watching cricket. The stars aligned perfectly and this created a lifelong ardent fan of this tournament. As a kid, I used to analyse all the squads even weeks before the tournament started. When the IPL schedule used to come in the newspaper I would carefully cut it out and paste it on the refrigerator. When I traveled to Dharwad to stay with my grandparents in the summer holidays, I would carry that schedule with me. I am, of course, a huge RCB fan. Any other rcb fans in the house? Virat Kohli, Chris Gayle, AB de viliers - the golden trio, I used to worship them, and still do. My entire summer holiday vacation used to revolve around IPL. And just last friday, the 16th edition of the IPL has begun. Any predictions as to who will be the champion this year? Well as the infamous RCB slogan goes - Ee sala cup namde, which translates to "This year the trophy is ours". After 15 attempts, let's hope that comes to reality XD

Now I believe the speakers are almost done with their warm up. But before the match begins I would like to describe how today's match is structured- in the first innings we have the prepared speeches where speakers will present a speech based on their speech objectives. In the second innings we have the table topics impromptu speaking session. And finally we have the post match analysis, feedback and evaluation section.

And for that, we are fortunate to be able to have a pre-match interview with the head coach of the team - the general evaluator, who is a ….
Lets welcome ™ XYZ as he explains what aspects of the match he will observe

Thank you cuz for explaining what aspects of the game you will observe. Now let me tell you something about speaker 1, he is very smart. Why? Because in addition to the head coach, he has a personal coach who will look at his performance with greater emphasis. His personal coach, that is, evaluator 1 is a ….

Thanks xyz, and now I think we're ready to begin the 1st innings. I can sense the anticipation building up. Are spectators ready? Audience at home? Awesome. Our first speaker is a ….

Fantastic speech xyz. I loved ….
In this strategic timeout, let's head back to harsha who is… wait where is he? Hey Suraj I've made my way up to the stands. I'm here with ™ xyz. Xyz how has the match been so far? Which is your favorite IPL team? Any favorite player? Awesome. We dont have much time unfortunately, the timeout is about to end, back to you Suraj. 

Well harsha seems to be enjoying in the stands, let's focus on the next speaker, who also turns out to be very smart- he too has a personal coach. His evaluator is a ….

Thanks xyz. Our speaker 2 is a ….

What a fantastic 1st innings. Both speakers knocked it out of the park!
The most thrilling experience I've had with IPL was definitely the time I watched a match in the stadium. Has anyone else watched an IPL match in the stadium? I vividly remember walking up the stairs to our stand. I could hear the chants and the noise and when we reached the top, it gave me goosebumps. 40,000 people screaming at the top of their lungs. The lush turf, the atmosphere, the music, the lights, it was unbelievable . The experience of watching in the stadium is completely different. You actually get a sense of the speed, strength and skill of the players. I was seeing my heroes right in front of my eyes. Chris Gayle scored a thunderous century and RCB won by a handsome margin. 
I had actually prepared a banner because I wanted to appear on TV. It was a unique banner. Just like how in a dictionary you have a word, whether it's a verb or noun, and the meaning.. in the same way, my banner read- "devilier- verb- to completely annihilate ones opponent". It was something unique right? Well I thought so too, unfortunately the cameraman didn't share our opinion- instead his attention was on banner's like - "Virat will you marry me?"XD

Ok, moving on to the 2nd innings - the table topics. The table topics master is a tricky customer. She bowls offspin, legspin, googly, doorsa, bouncers and what not. Our table topics speaker are the wicket keepers and have to respond instantaneously to the unpredictable bowling. Let's find out more about our bowler, the table topics master. She is a ….

Wow, what an entertaining innings. 
The match came down to the final ball, the toastmasters had 2 runs to defend. TM Remya bowled a great Yorker, the batsman missed, but they began sprinting in an attempt to draw the match. The wicket keeper XYZ collected the ball, aimed for the stumps and hit it. But it's a close call, the decision has been sent to the 3rd umpire. It's extremely tight, we're going to have to wait a bit for the decision XD.

While we wait for the result of the match, let's head over to head coach, general evaluator to learn where our team performed well and places where we can improve. Over to you XYZ

Thanks ™ XYZ, and now time for the result…. The third umpire is ready with his decision- Its OUT! Toastmasters are the winners! Congratulations to all the players and coaches

